README.md, before:

# pcl-for-android

1. Cross-compilation of [PCL](https://github.com/PointCloudLibrary/pcl) using conan.
2. Full integration in an Android example app.

## Tested setup

* Ubuntu 22.04
* Android SDK 25
* conan 2.0.4

The setup also works on macOS 13.1, except building for ARMv8 fails because
of an issue with the clang compiler.

## Install

```
apt install cmake git make python3
```

Install [conan](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/installation.html) and ninja

```
pip3 install conan ninja
```

## Cross-compilation

To start cross-compilation, run the provided script passing along the desired
target architecture:

```
./pcl-build-for-android.sh armv8|armv7|x86|x86_64 [shared]
```

Appending the option `shared` will build shared libraries instead of static
ones.

## Example app

Set in app/build.gradle the abiFilters depending for which architectures you
have cross-compiled. The default setup is arm64-v8a:

```
android {
    compileSdkVersion 28
    defaultConfig {
        ...
        externalNativeBuild {
            cmake {
                cppFlags "-std=c++11"
            }
        }
        ndk {
            abiFilters "arm64-v8a"
        }
    }
...
```

E.g. set in app/build.gradle to support armeabi-v7a and emulator (x86_64):

```
android {
    defaultConfig {
        ...
        ndk {
            abiFilters "armeabi-v7a", "x86_64"
        }
    }
...
```

Or to support all:

```
android {
    defaultConfig {
        ...
        ndk {
            abiFilters "arm64-v8a", "armeabi-v7a", "x86_64"
        }
    }
...
```

Now you can run the app and you will see in Logcat:

```
I/bashbug.example: pointcloud has size 5
```

## A few details

The CMake based example-app has conan fully integrated:

```
example-app/app/src/main
...
├── cpp
│   ├── cmake
│   │   └── conan.cmake
│   ├── CMakeLists.txt
│   ├── conanfile.txt
│   └── native-lib.cpp
...
```

***conanfile.txt*** defines the project's dependency to PCL.

```
[requires]
pcl/1.9.1@pcl-android/stable

[generators]
cmake_paths
cmake_find_package
```

***CMakeLists.txt*** includes cmake/conan.cmake which is a cmake integration of
[conan](https://github.com/conan-io/cmake-conan/blob/develop/conan.cmake).

```
include(${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/cmake/conan.cmake)

conan_cmake_run(CONANFILE conanfile.txt
                PROFILE arm64-v8a
                BASIC_SETUP
                UPDATE
                BUILD missing)

include(${CMAKE_CURRENT_BINARY_DIR}/conan_paths.cmake)

```

`conan_cmake_run()` does two things:
* It parses the conanfile.txt what dependencies it should install.
* In conanfile.txt are two generators defined `cmake_paths` and
  `cmake_find_package`.
  * `cmake_paths` creates conan_paths.cmake within the build folder. This adds
    to the `CMAKE_MODULE_PATH` and `CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH` the search path for the
    cross-compiled libraries.
  * `cmake_find_package` creates auto-generated Find*.cmake files within the
    build folder .externalNativeBuild/cmake/debug/arm64-v8a

```
example-app/app/.externalNativeBuild
└── cmake
    └── debug
        └── arm64-v8a
            ...
            ├── conanbuildinfo.cmake
            ├── conanbuildinfo.txt
            ├── conaninfo.txt
            ├── conan_paths.cmake
            ├── Findandroid-toolchain.cmake
            ├── Findboost.cmake
            ├── Findeigen.cmake
            ├── Findflann.cmake
            ├── Findlz4.cmake
            ├── Findpcl.cmake
            ├── graph_info.json
            ├── lib
            │   └── libnative-lib.so
            └── rules.ninja
```

This Find*.cmake files resolve `find_package` calls in CMakeLists.txt of cross-compiled libraries and provide targets like `pcl::pcl`:

```
find_package(pcl REQUIRED)

add_library(native-lib SHARED native-lib.cpp)

find_library(log-lib log)

target_link_libraries(native-lib
    PUBLIC
    ${log-lib}
    pcl::pcl
    )
```

Commit message:

added note about download NDK and setting up compilation profile

README.md, after:

# pcl-for-android

1. Cross-compilation of [PCL](https://github.com/PointCloudLibrary/pcl) using conan.
2. Full integration in an Android example app.

## Tested setup

* Ubuntu 22.04
* Android SDK 25
* conan 2.0.4

The setup also works on macOS 13.1, except building for ARMv8 fails because
of an issue with the clang compiler.

## Install

```
apt install cmake git make python3
```

Install [conan](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/installation.html) and ninja.

```
pip3 install conan ninja
```

Then, download the latest Android NDK from the [Android website](https://developer.android.com/ndk/downloads)
and unzip it.

After that, run `conan profile detect` to detect the default profile and create
an Android compilation profile under `~/.conan2/profiles/android` with the
following contents:

```
include(default)

[settings]
os=Android
os.api_level=26
compiler=clang
compiler.version=14
compiler.libcxx=c++_static
compiler.cppstd=14

[conf]
tools.android:ndk_path=[ndk_path]

```

Replacing `[ndk_path]` with the path at which you unzipped the downloaded
Android NDK.

## Cross-compilation

To start cross-compilation, run the provided script passing along the desired
target architecture:

```
./pcl-build-for-android.sh armv8|armv7|x86|x86_64 [shared]
```

Appending the option `shared` will build shared libraries instead of static
ones.

## Example app

Set in app/build.gradle the abiFilters depending for which architectures you
have cross-compiled. The default setup is arm64-v8a:

```
android {
    compileSdkVersion 28
    defaultConfig {
        ...
        externalNativeBuild {
            cmake {
                cppFlags "-std=c++11"
            }
        }
        ndk {
            abiFilters "arm64-v8a"
        }
    }
...
```

E.g. set in app/build.gradle to support armeabi-v7a and emulator (x86_64):

```
android {
    defaultConfig {
        ...
        ndk {
            abiFilters "armeabi-v7a", "x86_64"
        }
    }
...
```

Or to support all:

```
android {
    defaultConfig {
        ...
        ndk {
            abiFilters "arm64-v8a", "armeabi-v7a", "x86_64"
        }
    }
...
```

Now you can run the app and you will see in Logcat:

```
I/bashbug.example: pointcloud has size 5
```

## A few details

The CMake based example-app has conan fully integrated:

```
example-app/app/src/main
...
├── cpp
│   ├── cmake
│   │   └── conan.cmake
│   ├── CMakeLists.txt
│   ├── conanfile.txt
│   └── native-lib.cpp
...
```

***conanfile.txt*** defines the project's dependency to PCL.

```
[requires]
pcl/1.9.1@pcl-android/stable

[generators]
cmake_paths
cmake_find_package
```

***CMakeLists.txt*** includes cmake/conan.cmake which is a cmake integration of
[conan](https://github.com/conan-io/cmake-conan/blob/develop/conan.cmake).

```
include(${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/cmake/conan.cmake)

conan_cmake_run(CONANFILE conanfile.txt
                PROFILE arm64-v8a
                BASIC_SETUP
                UPDATE
                BUILD missing)

include(${CMAKE_CURRENT_BINARY_DIR}/conan_paths.cmake)

```

`conan_cmake_run()` does two things:
* It parses the conanfile.txt what dependencies it should install.
* In conanfile.txt are two generators defined `cmake_paths` and
  `cmake_find_package`.
  * `cmake_paths` creates conan_paths.cmake within the build folder. This adds
    to the `CMAKE_MODULE_PATH` and `CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH` the search path for the
    cross-compiled libraries.
  * `cmake_find_package` creates auto-generated Find*.cmake files within the
    build folder .externalNativeBuild/cmake/debug/arm64-v8a

```
example-app/app/.externalNativeBuild
└── cmake
    └── debug
        └── arm64-v8a
            ...
            ├── conanbuildinfo.cmake
            ├── conanbuildinfo.txt
            ├── conaninfo.txt
            ├── conan_paths.cmake
            ├── Findandroid-toolchain.cmake
            ├── Findboost.cmake
            ├── Findeigen.cmake
            ├── Findflann.cmake
            ├── Findlz4.cmake
            ├── Findpcl.cmake
            ├── graph_info.json
            ├── lib
            │   └── libnative-lib.so
            └── rules.ninja
```

This Find*.cmake files resolve `find_package` calls in CMakeLists.txt of cross-compiled libraries and provide targets like `pcl::pcl`:

```
find_package(pcl REQUIRED)

add_library(native-lib SHARED native-lib.cpp)

find_library(log-lib log)

target_link_libraries(native-lib
    PUBLIC
    ${log-lib}
    pcl::pcl
    )
```
